Update docs related to NOAA CSPs (#3043)
NOAA-EMC/global-workflow: docs/source/noaa_csp.rst

Configuring NOAA Cloud Service Providers
########################################

The NOAA Cloud Service Providers (CSP) support the forecast-only,

> coupled, and gefs configurations for the global workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coupled, and GEFS configurations for the global workflow.
```

Once a suitable CSP instance and cluster is defined/created,

> the global-workflow may be executed similar to the on-prem machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the global-workflow may be executed similarly to the on-premises (on-prem) machines.
```

     - **Instance Type**
     - **Partition**
     - **File System**
   * - Amazon Web Services ParallelWorks
     - C48, C96, C192, C384
     - ``ATM``, ``GEFS``
     - ``c5.18xlarge (72 vCPUs, 144 GB Memory, amd64)``
     - ``compute``
     - ``/lustre``, ``/bucket``
   * - Azure ParallelWorks
     - C48, C96, C192, C384
     - ``ATM``, ``GEFS``
     - ``Standard_F48s_v2 (48 vCPUs, 96 GB Memory, amd64)``
     - ``compute``
     - ``/lustre``, ``/bucket``
   * - GCP ParallelWorks
     - C48, C96, C192, C384
     - ``ATM``, ``GEFS``
     - ``c3d-standard-60-lssd (60 vCPUs, 240 GB Memory, amd64)``
     - ``compute``
     - ``/lustre``, ``/bucket``

Instructions regarding configuring the respective CSP instances and
clusters follow.

*********************
Login to the NOAA CSP
*********************

> Log in to the `NOAA cloud <http://noaa.parallel.works/login>`, and into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to the `NOAA cloud <http://noaa.parallel.works/login>`_, and into
```
Needs the underscore to render the hyperlink correctly.

Author: @gspetro-NOAA ,

Added that back.

If you feel all things are good now. Please review and approve it so Kate can merge it in.

Thanks,
Wei

the resources configuration. The user should arrive at the following
screen as in :numref:`Figure %s <pw-home>`.

> Click the :blue-text:`blue` box indicated by the red arrow to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the blue box indicated by the red arrow to login.
```
`:blue-text:` and `:red-text:` won't work as intended unless you add styling to `docs/source/_static/custom.css`

Author: It was defined in : docs/source/custom.css
Let us remove it for now.
Thanks.

Log in to the `NOAA CSP <http://noaa.parallel.works/login>`_ and into
the resources configuration. The user should arrive at the following

> screen. Click the "blue" box pointed by the red arrow to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
screen. Click the "blue" box indicated by the red arrow to login.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_login_1.png

> Fill the ``Username / Email`` box with your own username or NOAA-email.
> Note that the ``Username or email`` query is case-sensitive.
> And then the respective RSA token key using the same application used
> for the other RDHPCS machines (i.e., Hera, Jet, etc.,).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill the ``Username / Email`` box with your username or NOAA email (usually in "FirstName.LastName" format).
Note that the ``Username / Email`` field is case-sensitive.
Then enter the respective ``Pin + RSA`` combination using the same RSA token application used
for access to other RDHPCS machines (e.g., Hera, Jet).
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_login_2.png

*******************************
Configure the NOAA CSP Instance
*******************************

> Once logged into the NOAA CSP, navigate to the :red-text:`Marketplace` section

Reviewer: "Marketplace" is not actually rendering in red text, but that was the case before your PR. Might be worth mentioning to global-workflow folks who work on documentation. The role definition at the top of the page probably needs `:class: red-text` underneath it, but I haven't tested to be sure.

> at the left panel as pointed by the red arrow, and click.
> Scrow down to selecet "AWS EPIC Wei CentOS" as in red-circle.
> Note, current global-workflow still using CentOS built spack-stack.
> It will be updated to Rocky 8 soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the left sidebar indicated by the red arrow, and click.
Scrow down to selecet "AWS EPIC Wei CentOS", circled  in red.
Note that the current global-workflow is still using CentOS-built spack-stack,
but it will be updated to Rocky 8 soon.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_instance_1.png
   

> Next, click "Forklatest" as shown in the red-circle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click "Fork latest" as shown in the red-circle.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_instance_2.png
   

> Please provide a unique name (box pointer by the red-arrow) for the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please provide a unique name in the "New compute node" field for the instance (see the box pointer by the red arrow).
```

Best practices suggest one that is clear, concise, and relevant to the application.

> Click :red-text:`Fork` (in the red-circle) to fork an instance.

Reviewer: Same as my comment above -- `:red-text:` won't render in red.

Author: I'll use double single quota instead of red:text.

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_instance_3.png

Now, an instance is forked, and it is time to configure the cluster.

> 1. Select a "Recource Account", usually it is: NOAA AWS Commercial Vault.
> 2. Select a "Group". Which will be something like: ca-epic, ca-sfs-emc, etc.
> 3. Copy and paste you Public key (.ssh/id_rsa.pub, .ssh/id_dsa.pu from your laptop).
> 4. Modify "User Bootstrap". If you are not use "ca-epic" group, please UNCOMMENT line 2.
> 5. Keep "health Check" as it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select a "Resource Account"; usually it is *NOAA AWS Commercial Vault*.
#. Select a "Group", which will be something like: ca-epic, ca-sfs-emc, etc.
#. Copy and paste your public key (e.g., *.ssh/id_rsa.pub*, *.ssh/id_dsa.pu* from your laptop).
#. Modify "User Bootstrap". If you are not using the "ca-epic" group, please UNCOMMENT line 2.
#. Keep "Health Check" as it is.
```

> Click "Save Changes" at top-right as shown in read circle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click "Save Changes" at top-right as shown in red circle.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_instance_4.png

> The NOAA ParallelWorks currently provides 3 CSPs:
> **AWS** (Amazon Web Services), **Azure** (Microsoft Azure),
> and **GCP** (Google Cloud Platform).
> Existing clusters may also be modified.
> Better practice is to fork from Marketplace with something similar to your requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOAA ParallelWorks (PW) currently provides 3 CSPs:
**AWS** (Amazon Web Services), **Azure** (Microsoft Azure),
and **GCP** (Google Cloud Platform).
Existing clusters may also be modified.
However, it is best practice to fork from Marketplace with something similar to your requests (rather than modifying an existing cluster).
```

******************************
Add CSP Lustre Filesystem
******************************

> To run global-workflow on CSPs, we need to attached lustre filesystem as run directory.
> Figure, we need to add/define our lustre filesystem, to do so,
> navigate to the middle of noaa.parallel.works web-site left panel and select "Lutre" 
> as pointed by red-arrow, and then click "AddStorage" at top-right as in the red-circle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run global-workflow on CSPs, we need to attach the ``/lustre`` filesystem as run directory.
First, we need to add/define our ``/lustre`` filesystem. To do so,
navigate to the middle of the NOAA PW website left side panel and select "Lustre" (see the red arrow in :numref:`Figure %s <noaacsp_lustre_1>`), and then click "Add Storage" at the top right as shown in the red-circle.
```

Reviewer: In line 111, you can crosslink to the anchor I added below. You can do that for any image. You might also want to add titles to the different images? Not essential, but helpful for readers.

> .. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_1.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _noaacsp_lustre_1:

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_1.png
```

Reviewer: This adds an anchor to crosslink the image.

> Select `FSx` for AWS FSx lustre filesystem as in red-circle.
> Define the lustre with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select `FSx` for the AWS FSx ``/lustre`` filesystem as shown in the red circle.
Define ``/lustre`` with:
```

> 1. Clear and meaningfull `Resource name` as shown in red-arrow 1
> 2. Short sentice for `Decription` as shown in red-arrow 2
> 3. Choose **linux** for `Tag` as shown in red-arrow 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. A clear and meaningful `Resource name` as shown by the first red arrow
#. A short sentence for `Description`, as shown in the second red arrow
#. Choose **linux** for `Tag` as shown by red arrow #3
```

Reviewer: The # symbol should automatically generate a list. You can keep it the way you have it, but if the steps ever need to be updated, it's easier not to have to change every number. ;)

Click "Add Storage" as in red-box at top-right corner.
This will create a "lustre" filesystem template.

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_2.png
	   

> After create the template, we need to fill information for this lustre filesystem.
> To do so, go to noaa.parallel.works web-site, click "Lustre" at left-panel as
> indicated by red-arrow 1. Then select the filesystem as define above by `Resource name`
> as shown in red-box. Here user can delete this resource if not needed by
> click the trash-can as pointed by red-arrow 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the template, we need to fill information for this lustre filesystem.
To do so, go to the NOAA PW website, and click "Lustre" on the left side panel as
indicated by red arrow 1. Then select the filesystem defined above by `Resource name`,
as shown in the red box. Here, the user can delete this resource if not needed by
clicking the trash can (indicated by red-arrow 2).
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_3.png

> By click the filesystme in the red-box of the above image,
> users led to the lustre definition page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking the filesystem in the red box of the image above,
users will be led to the lustre definition page. Then follow the steps illustrated in the :ref:`image below <noaacsp_lustre_4>`:
```

> 1. Choose a size in the `Storage Capacity(GB)` box as pointed by red-arrow 1.
>    There is a minium of 1200 by AWS. For C48 ATM/GEFS case this will be enough.
>    For SFS-C96 case, or C768 ATM/S2S case it should probably increase to 12000.
> 2. For `File System Deployment`, choose "SCRATCH_2" for now as by red-arrow 2.
>    Do not use SCRATCH_1, as it is used for test by PW.
> 3. Choose **NONE** for `File System Compression` as pointed by red-arrow 3.
>    Only choose LZ4 if you understand what it means.
> 4. Leave "S2 Import Path" and "S3 Export Path" black for now.
> 5. Click **Save Changes** in red-circle to save the definition/(changes made).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Choose a size in the `Storage Capacity(GB)` box as shown by red arrow 1.
   There is a minimum of 1,200 for AWS. For the C48 ATM/GEFS case, this will be enough.
   For the SFS C96 case or the C768 ATM/S2S case it should probably be increased to 12,000.
#. For `File System Deployment`, choose "SCRATCH_2" for now (see red arrow 2).
   Do not use SCRATCH_1, as it is used for testing by PW.
#. Choose **NONE** for `File System Compression`, as indicated by red arrow 3.
   Only choose LZ4 if you understand what it means.
#. Leave "S2 Import Path" and "S3 Export Path" black for now.
#. Click **Save Changes** (in red circle) to save the definition/changes made.
```

> .. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_4.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _noaacsp_lustre_4:

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_4.png
```

For the storage to be allocated for the global-workflow application,
it is suggested that the ``Mount Point`` be ``/lustre``. Once the storage
has been configured, click the ``+ Add Attached Storage`` button in
the upper-right corner. This is illustrated in the following image.

> .. image:: _static/noaacsp_lustre_5.png

Reviewer: @weihuang-jedi This image has not been added to your fork/branch; it doesn't render in the docs.

Author: has corrected with links.

******************************
Attach CSP Lustre Filesystem
******************************

Now we need to attach the defined filesystem to our cluster.

> Go back to our noaa.parallel.works web-site, and click `Cluster`
> as shown in figuer below, then select the cluster "AWS EPIC Wei CentOS example"
> (it should be your own cluster) cluster as show in red-box.
> Note, one can remove/delete this cluster if no longer needed by
> click the trash-can shown in the red-circle at right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go back to the NOAA PW web-site, and click `Cluster`
as shown in figure below, then select the cluster "AWS EPIC Wei CentOS example"
cluster (it should be your own cluster) as show in the red box.
Note, one can remove/delete this cluster if no longer needed by
clicking the trash can shown in the red circle at right.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_filesystem_1.png

> When get into the cluster page, click the `Definition` in the top menu as
> in the red-box. When finished, remeber to clicke `Save Changes` to save
> the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the "Compute Cluster" page, click the `Definition` in the top menu as shown
in the red box. When finished, remeber to click `Save Changes` to save
the changes.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_filesystem_2.png

> Scrow down to the bottom, and click `Add Attached Filesystems` as in the red-circle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scroll down to the bottom, and click `Add Attached Filesystems` as shown in the red circle.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_filesystem_3.png

> After click `Add Attached Filesystems`, one `Attached Filesystems settings` will appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After clicking `Add Attached Filesystems`, `Attached Filesystems settings` will appear.
```

> 1. In the `Storage` box, select the lustre filesystem defined above, as in red-arrow 1.
> 2. In the `Mount Point` box, name it `/lustre` (the common and default choice) as pointed by red-arrow 2.
>    If you choose a different name, make sure to make the Global-Workflow setup step
>    use the name chosen here.
> 
> If you have a `S3 bucket`, one can attached as:
> 
> 3. In the `Storage` box, select the bucket you want to use, as in red-arrow 3.
> 4. In the `Mount Point` box, name it `/bucket` (the common and default choice) as pointed by red-arrow 4.
> 
> .. image:: _static/noaacsp_filesystem_4.png
> 
> Always remember to click `Save Changes` after making any changes to the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `Storage` box, select the `/lustre` filesystem defined above, as indicated by red arrow 1.
2. In the `Mount Point` box, name it `/lustre` (the common default choice) as indicated by red arrow 2.
   If you choose a different name, make sure that the Global-Workflow setup step
   uses the name chosen here.

If you have a `S3 bucket`, it can be attached as follows:

3. In the `Storage` box, select the bucket you want to use, as in red arrow 3.
4. In the `Mount Point` box, name it `/bucket` (the common default choice) as indicated by red arrow 4.

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_filesystem_4.png

Always remember to click `Save Changes` after making any changes to the cluster.
```

**************************
Using the NOAA CSP Cluster
**************************

> To activate the cluster, click the `cluster` at right panel of the noaa.parallel.works web-site,
> as point by the red-arrow. Then click the `Sessions` button in red-square, and than click the
> button in red-circle. The cluster status is denoted by the color-coded button
> on the right: red, stopped; orange, requested; green, active. The amount of time required to start
> the cluster varies and not immediate and may take several minutes for the cluster to become active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To activate the cluster, click `Clusters` on the left panel of the NOAA PW website,
as indicated by the red arrow. Then click the `Sessions` button in the red square, and click the power
button in the red circle. The cluster status is denoted by the color-coded button
on the right: red means stopped; orange  means requested; green means active. The amount of time required to start
the cluster varies and is not immediate; it may take several minutes (often 10-20) for the cluster to become active.
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_using_1.png

when the cluster is activate, user will see:
1. Green dot means the cluster is active, pointed by red-arrow 1.
2. Green dot means the cluster is active, pointed by red-arrow 2.
3. Green button means the cluster is active, pointed by red-arrow 3.
4. Click the blue-square with arrow inside pointed by red-arrow 4 will copy the cluster's IP into clipboard,
   which you can open a laptop xterm/window, and do `ssh username@the-ip-address` in the xterm window will connect you
   to the AWS cluster, and you can do you work there.
5. Which is the `username@the-ip-address`, or your AWS PW cluster. Click it, will have a PW web terminal appear in the

>    bottom of the web-site, which you can work on this terminal to use your AWS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the cluster is activate, the user will see:

#. Green dots meaning that the cluster is active, shown by red arrows 1 & 2.
#. A green power button meaning that the cluster is active, shown by red arrow 3.
#. A blue clipboard icon with `username@the-ip-address` to identify your AWS PW cluster. Users can either: 
      
      * Click the blue clipboard icon indicated by red arrow 4 to copy the cluster's IP address into the clipboard. 
         You can open a laptop terminal window (e.g., Terminal, Xterm, Git Bash) and run `ssh username@the-ip-address` in the window to connect
         to the AWS cluster, and you can do your work there.
      * Click `username@the-ip-address` to open a PW web terminal at the
         bottom of the website, which you can work in to use your AWS cluster.
```

> Please note, as soon as the cluster is activated, AWS/PW starts charging you for use the cluster.
> As this cluster is exclusive for yourself, AWS keep charging you as long as the cluster is active.
> For running global-workflow, one need to keep the cluster active if there is any rocoto jobs running,
> as rocoto is using `crontab`, which needs the cluster active all the time, or the crontab job will be terminated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note, as soon as the cluster is activated, AWS/PW starts charging you for use of the cluster.
As this cluster is exclusive for yourself, AWS will keep charging you as long as the cluster is active.
For running global-workflow, one needs to keep the cluster active if there are any Rocoto jobs running,
as Rocoto is using `crontab`, which needs the cluster active all the times, or the crontab job(s) will be terminated.
```

Reviewer 2: @weihuang-jedi Has this comment been addressed yet?

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_using_2.png

> After finish your work on the AWS cluster, one should terminate/stop the cluster, unless you have reasons to keep it active.
> To stop/terminate the cluster, go to the cluster session, and click the `green` button. A window pop up, and click the
> red `Turn Off` button to switch off the cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After finishing your work on the AWS cluster, you should terminate/stop the cluster, unless you have reasons to keep it active.
To stop/terminate the cluster, go to the cluster session, and click the green power button. A window pop up, and click the
red `Turn Off` button to switch off the cluster. 
```

.. image:: _static/noaacsp_using_3.png

***************************
Running the Global Workflow
***************************

> Assume you have a AWS cluster running, after login to the cluster through `ssh` from your laptop terminal,
> or access the cluster from your web terminal, one can start clone, compile, and run global-workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming you have an AWS cluster running, after logging in to the cluster through `ssh` from your laptop terminal,
or accessing the cluster from the PW web terminal, one can start to clone, compile, and run global-workflow.
```

1. clone global-workflow( assume you have setup access to githup)::

>    cd /contrib/$USER   #you should have a username, and have a directory at /contrib where we save our permanent files.
>    git clone --recursive git@github.com:NOAA-EMC/global-workflow.git
>    #or the develop form at EPIC:
>    git clone --recursive git@github.com:NOAA-EPIC/global-workflow-cloud.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console

      cd /contrib/$USER   #you should have a username, and have a directory at /contrib where we save our permanent files.
      git clone --recursive git@github.com:NOAA-EMC/global-workflow.git
      #or the develop form at EPIC:
      git clone --recursive git@github.com:NOAA-EPIC/global-workflow-cloud.git
```

Reviewer: Reformatted to render properly

2. compile global-workflow::

>    cd /contrib/$USER/global-workflow
>    cd sorc
>    build_all.sh   # or similar command to compile for gefs, or others.
>    link_workflow.sh  # after build_all.sh finished successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console

      cd /contrib/$USER/global-workflow
      cd sorc
      build_all.sh   # or similar command to compile for gefs, or others.
      link_workflow.sh  # after build_all.sh finished successfully
```

Reviewer: Reformatted to render properly

> As users may define a very small cluster as controoler, one may use a script similar to this to compile in compute node.::
> 
>    #!/bin/bash
> 
>    #SBATCH --job-name=compile
> 
>    #SBATCH --account=$USER
> 
>    #SBATCH --qos=batch
> 
>    #SBATCH --partition=compute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   As users may define a very small cluster as controller, one may use a script similar to this to compile in compute node.::

      #!/bin/bash

      #SBATCH --job-name=compile

      #SBATCH --account=$USER

      #SBATCH --qos=batch

      #SBATCH --partition=compute
```

>    #SBATCH -t 04:15:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #SBATCH -t 04:15:00
```

>    #SBATCH --nodes=1
> 
>    #SBATCH -o compile.%J.log
> 
>    #SBATCH --exclusive
> 
>    set -x
> 
>    gwhome=/contrib/Wei.Huang/src/global-workflow-cloud
>    cd ${gwhome}/sorc
>    source ${gwhome}/workflow/gw_setup.sh
> 
>    #build_all.sh
> 
>    build_all.sh -w
> 
>    link_workflow.sh
> 
> Save the above lines in a file, say, com.slurm, and submit this job with command "sbatch com.slurm"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #SBATCH --nodes=1

      #SBATCH -o compile.%J.log

      #SBATCH --exclusive

      set -x

      gwhome=/contrib/Wei.Huang/src/global-workflow-cloud
      cd ${gwhome}/sorc
      source ${gwhome}/workflow/gw_setup.sh

      #build_all.sh

      build_all.sh -w

      link_workflow.sh

   Save the above lines in a file, e.g., `com.slurm`, and submit this job with command ``sbatch com.slurm``.
```

> 3. run global-workflow C48 ATM test case (assume user has /lustre filesystem attached)::
> 
>    cd /contrib/$USER/global-workflow
>    
>    HPC_ACCOUNT=${USER} pslot=c48atm RUNTESTS=/lustre/$USER/run \
>         ./workflow/create_experiment.py \
>         --yaml ci/cases/pr/C48_ATM.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the global-workflow C48 ATM test case (assuming user has the `/lustre` filesystem attached)::

   .. code-block:: console
   
      cd /contrib/$USER/global-workflow
      HPC_ACCOUNT=${USER} pslot=c48atm RUNTESTS=/lustre/$USER/run \
      ./workflow/create_experiment.py --yaml ci/cases/pr/C48_ATM.yaml
```

>    cd /lustre/$USER/run/EXPDIR/c48atm
>    crontab c48atm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      cd /lustre/$USER/run/EXPDIR/c48atm
      crontab c48atm
```

> EPIC has copied the common used data to AWS, and the current code has setup to use those data.
> If user wants to run own case, user needs to make changes to the IC path and others to make it work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EPIC has copied commonly used data to AWS, and the current code has been set up to use those data.
If users want to run their own case, they need to make changes to the IC path and others to make it work.
```

Reviewer: @weihuang-jedi Maybe we could say "EPIC has copied data for the C48 ATM/GEFS case and the SFS C96 case to AWS, and the current code has been set up to use those data." If that's not accurate though, no need to say that. I think it would be nice to be more specific about what data is there.

Author: Yes. Agree. Your suggested change is more accurate.

The execution of the global-workflow should now follow the same steps

> as those for the RDHPCS on-premise hosts.

Reviewer: This line should say "on-premises" with an "s", not "on-premise". Even when talking about only one location, it has an s.

(rather than modifying an existing cluster).

******************************
Add CSP Lustre Filesystem
******************************

To run global-workflow on CSPs, we need to attach the ``/lustre`` filesystem as run directory.
First, we need to add/define our ``/lustre`` filesystem.
To do so, navigate to the middle of the NOAA PW website left side panel and select "Lustre"
(see the red arrow in :numref:`Figure %s <noaacsp_lustre_1>`), and then click "Add Storage"
at the top right as shown in the red-circle.

.. _noaacsp_lustre_1:

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_lustre_1.png

Select `FSx` for the AWS FSx ``/lustre`` filesystem as shown in the red circle.
Define ``/lustre`` with:

#. A clear and meaningful `Resource name` as shown by the first red arrow
#. A short sentence for `Description`, as shown in the second red arrow
#. Choose **linux** for `Tag` as shown by red arrow #3

Click "Add Storage" as in red-box at top-right corner.
This will create a "lustre" filesystem template.

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_lustre_2.png
	   

> fter creating the template, we need to fill information for this lustre filesystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the template, we need to fill in information for this lustre filesystem.
```

To do so, go to the NOAA PW website, and click "Lustre" on the left side panel as
indicated by red arrow 1. Then select the filesystem defined above by `Resource name`,
as shown in the red box. Here, the user can delete this resource if not needed by
clicking the trash can (indicated by red-arrow 2).

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_lustre_3.png

By clicking the filesystem in the red box of the image above,
users will be led to the lustre definition page.

> Then follow the steps illustrated in the :numref:`image below <noaacsp_lustre_4>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then follow the steps illustrated in the :ref:`image below <noaacsp_lustre_4>`:
```

   use the name chosen here.

If you have a `S3 bucket`, one can attached as:

#. In the `Storage` box, select the bucket you want to use, as in red-arrow 3.
#. In the `Mount Point` box, name it `/bucket` (the common and default choice) as pointed by red-arrow 4.

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_filesystem_4.png

Always remember to click `Save Changes` after making any changes to the cluster.

**************************
Using the NOAA CSP Cluster
**************************

To activate the cluster, click `Clusters` on the left panel of the NOAA PW website,
as indicated by the red arrow. Then click the `Sessions` button in the red square, and click the power
button in the red circle. The cluster status is denoted by the color-coded button
on the right: red means stopped; orange  means requested; green means active. The amount of time required to start
the cluster varies and is not immediate; it may take several minutes (often 10-20) for the cluster to become active.

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_using_1.png

> when the cluster is activate, user will see:
> #. Green dot means the cluster is active, pointed by red-arrow 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the cluster is activate, user will see:

#. Green dot means the cluster is active, pointed by red-arrow 1.
```

As this cluster is exclusive for yourself, AWS keep charging you as long as the cluster is active.
For running global-workflow, one need to keep the cluster active if there is any rocoto jobs running,
as rocoto is using `crontab`, which needs the cluster active all the time, or the crontab job will be terminated.

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_using_2.png

After finishing your work on the AWS cluster, you should terminate/stop the cluster, unless you have reasons to keep it active.
To stop/terminate the cluster, go to the cluster session, and click the `green` power button. A window pop up, and click the
red `Turn Off` button to switch off the cluster. 

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/NOAA-EMC/global-workflow/images/noaacsp_using_3.png

***************************
Running the Global Workflow
***************************

Assume you have a AWS cluster running, after login to the cluster through `ssh` from your laptop terminal,
or access the cluster from your web terminal, one can start clone, compile, and run global-workflow.

> 1. clone global-workflow(assume you have setup access to githup)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Clone global-workflow (assumes you have setup access to GitHub)
```

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console
```

Reviewer: Necessary for formatting numbered list

     cd /contrib/$USER   #you should have a username, and have a directory at /contrib where we save our permanent files.
     git clone --recursive git@github.com:NOAA-EMC/global-workflow.git global-workflow
     #or the develop form at EPIC:
     git clone --recursive git@github.com:NOAA-EPIC/global-workflow-cloud.git global-workflow-cloud

> 2. compile global-workflow::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Compile global-workflow
```

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console
```

     cd /contrib/$USER/global-workflow
     cd sorc
     build_all.sh   # or similar command to compile for gefs, or others.
     link_workflow.sh  # after build_all.sh finished successfully

> 3. As users may define a very small cluster as controller, one may use a script similar to this to compile in compute node::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. As users may define a very small cluster as controller, one may use a script similar to this to compile in compute node
```

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console
```

     #!/bin/bash
     #SBATCH --job-name=compile
     #SBATCH --account=$USER
     #SBATCH --qos=batch
     #SBATCH --partition=compute
     #SBATCH -t 04:15:00
     #SBATCH --nodes=1
     #SBATCH -o compile.%J.log
     #SBATCH --exclusive

     set -x

     gwhome=/contrib/Wei.Huang/src/global-workflow-cloud
     cd ${gwhome}/sorc
     source ${gwhome}/workflow/gw_setup.sh

     #build_all.sh

     build_all.sh -w

     link_workflow.sh

> Save the above lines in a file, say, com.slurm, and submit this job with command "sbatch com.slurm"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Save the above lines in a file, say, com.slurm, and submit this job with command "sbatch com.slurm"
```

> 4. run global-workflow C48 ATM test case (assume user has /lustre filesystem attached)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. run global-workflow C48 ATM test case (assumes user has /lustre filesystem attached)
```

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console
```
